+++
title = "5 Tips for Interviewing Well"
date = "2006-07-31T02:00:00-00:00"
draft = false
+++

I've been interviewing people (mostly programmers and management/leads)
for about 7 years. I would guess I've interviewed over 100 people (if
you include college recruiting job fair "mini-interviews"). In that
time, I've seen and heard some amazing things. I won't share horror
stories, because that's not terribly helpful. Instead, I've put together
a list of 5 ways to interview well. Without further ado:

**1. Show up**.

This seems obvious, but let's elaborate a little bit. Show up on time -
early even. But not too early, as that's often more annoying than
showing up late. 10 minutes early is fine; 30 minutes is not. You may
want to ask the company you're interviewing with how early to show up,
as sometimes there might be paperwork to fill out. Be prepared -have
extra resumes, samples of your work, etc. Know something about the
company you're interviewing with. You shouldn't have to ask "What does
your company do", unless it's one of those super-secret startups that
wants you to sign an NDA to walk in the front door (in which case, run
for the hills).

**2. Make a good first impression.**

Dress sharp: when unsure, wear a good quality suit that fits well. It's
perfectly fine to ask the company you're interviewing with what the
appropriate attire would be; these days, corporate dress codes are all
over the map. You should always strive to be dressed at least one or two
levels above the person you're interviewing with (unless they're wearing
a suit - no need to don a tuxedo).

**3. Ask questions.**

Nothing makes a job candidate seem less enthusiastic than when they ask
no questions. Here's a tip though, don't ask too many questions about
money. It can make you appear greedy, and people will start to question
if that's the only thing that matters.

**4. Don't complain.**

If you're leaving a bad situation (boss is a jerk, company went down the
drain, etc), it's tempting to complain about your situation. Don't.
Nobody wants to hire a whiner, which is exactly how you'll come across.
It's ok to talk about things you didn't like, but don't dwell on it.
Talk about the things you liked about your job as well.

**5. Don't lie**

You can recover from just about anything else on this list, but this one
is fatal. If you pad your resume, you will be found out - don't even
bother. Furthermore, "I don't know" is an appropriate answer to a
question. If I ask if you've done *X* with *ABC* database, don't try and
bluff. Just say "No, I haven't yet had the opportunity, but I'd like to
learn how". I can't emphasize this enough. I've passed on several
otherwise qualified candidates because they put some skill on their
resume that they didn't actually have. Lying never, ever works in the
long run.

Above all, be yourself. Be relaxed, be natural, and be honest. You'll do
fine.

