+++
title = "SEED Conference Recap"
date = "2007-11-01T05:00:00-00:00"
draft = false
+++

![](>/assets/seedbanner.jpg)

I attended the first [SEED Conference](http://www.seedconference.com) on
Monday. It was a great event - it exceeded my expectations, and was a
bargain at only \$395.

The event itself was small (the website says 135, but it seemed like
there were a few more than that), and relatively informal. The venue was
the [McCormick Tribune Campus
Center](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/McCormick_Tribune_Campus_Center) on
the campus of the [Illinois Institute of
Technology](http://www.iit.edu). The building is very interesting in and
of itself, lots of different colors and textures, and the
[El](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_el) runs right through the
building.

[Mike Rohde](http://www.rohdesign.com/weblog/) did a [very well-written
summary](http://www.rohdesign.com/weblog/archives/002389.html) of the
conference (complete with very nice sketches), so I'm not going to do
that here. I'm going to highlight some key thoughts from each of the
three speakers. As a side note, I got to meet Mike Rohde at this
conference. I'd been reading his blog for a number of years, and it was
very enjoyable to get to know him. If you've not seen his site before,
[check it out](http://www.rohdesign.com/weblog/).

### Carlos Segura

Of the three people presenting (Carlos, Jason Fried, and Jim Coudal),
Carlos was the one I knew the least about. I knew he was a designer, and
was one of the original founders of
[37Signals](http://www.37signals.com), but beyond that I knew very
little. I really enjoyed Carlos's talk - it was much more visual than
the other two. He has a very impressive body of work, including reviving
the [Corbis](http://www.corbis.com) brand. Overall, Carlos's talk was
very engaging - he conveyed a lot of his information through photos and
stories. Here's a collection of thoughts I jotted down while he was
talking (all of this is paraphrased, none of it should be taken as a
direct quote):

-   Stretch yourself - expose yourself to new things. He gave an example
    about how he didn't like country music, but then visited someone's
    office who was listening to bluegrass music, and fell in love
    with it.

<!-- -->

-   Don't be afraid to break all the rules. His company did the covers
    for a very well-received comic book series called "The Filth" that
    defied all of the conventions of what a comic book should look like,
    and as a result it stood out in a sea of identical-looking
    comic books.

<!-- -->

-   Stay small. He talked about the problems you face when your design
    firm gets big (his company is currently 2 people, although it has
    been up to 18). When you get big, you end up having to take work
    just to "feed the beast", as he put it. When you are small, you can
    be much more choosy about the work you take. This was a recurring
    theme throughout the day, from all three speakers.

<!-- -->

-   He doesn't do focus groups - he thought it led to mediocrity.

<!-- -->

-   Failure isn't a bad thing - good things often come from it.

### Jason Fried

If you're reading this, you probably know who Jason Fried is. In case
you've been under a rock, Jason is the founder of
[37Signals](http://www.37signals.com), and it's most visible employee.
Here's a summary of his talk, which focused on collaboration:

-   Keep your teams small - 2 or 3 people. When you do this, you are
    forced to focus on what's important. You also get clearer
    communication for free.

<!-- -->

-   Keep your team apart. Keeping them away from each other helps them
    to stay focused and get things done. "Interuption is the enemy of
    productivity"

<!-- -->

-   Use passive, not active, forms of communication. Active is stopping
    by someone's desk, tapping them on the shoulder. Passive is email,
    IM, Campfire, etc. When you're getting ready to interrupt someone,
    you need to ask yourself "Is this really worth interrupting
    them for?".

<!-- -->

-   Meetings are toxic. They should be a last resort. Meetings break
    your day into small, unproductive chunks (amen to that!). A 1 hour
    meeting with 10 people in it isn't a one hour meeting - it's a 10
    hour meeting. Think about that.

<!-- -->

-   Judo. Chop your problems into smaller and smaller problems. Don't
    make big decisions, make lots of smaller ones. Decisions are
    progress, and progress is great for morale.

<!-- -->

-   Manage quality by using the software while you build it. (My
    commentary on this is that only works if you're building software
    for yourself. It breaks down if you're building a medical records
    system for a doctors office. Still sound advice though, if you can
    apply it.)

<!-- -->

-   On hiring and retaining, Jason talked about how they pay
    competitively, but offer lifestyle-based perks such as 4 day work
    weeks in the summer, flexible hours, etc. He noted that someone will
    always pay more, but the work environment and lifestyle perks can
    make a big difference.

### Jim Coudal

Jim runs [Coudal Partners](http://www.coudal.com), a design firm. Jim's
talk was the most entertaining of the three. He's a very funny guy. He
showed several videos, including [this
one](http://coudal.com/regrets.php), which I identified with a little
too much. Here's the key points I got from him:

-   You have to try things all the time. This was my big takeaway from
    the conference as a whole - try more stuff and expose yourself to
    new things. Jim is one of these guys who comes up with new ideas all
    the time. Some work, some don't. From each one, you learn something.

<!-- -->

-   Don't be afraid to fail. They've tried a bunch of stuff that didn't
    work out, but they learned things by trying, and often times the
    failures led to something else.

<!-- -->

-   Don't talk things to death. When you have a good idea, do it. Even
    if it's a small part, do it.

<!-- -->

-   Curiosity is a craft

<!-- -->

-   Take your short attention span and turn it into something creative.
    This tied back to the video I linked to earlier. There's nothing
    wrong with jumping around and trying different things.

<!-- -->

-   "Taste trumps skill" - this is one of their hiring criteria. Skills
    can be acquired, taste not so much.

<!-- -->

-   Choose your clients carefully. This was a recurring theme as well
    throughout the conference. Coudal judges every project on three
    criteria: Is it profitable, can we do great work, and can we learn
    something (that may not be 100% what he said, but it's real close).
    That doesn't mean that every project needs to meet all three - they
    might do something where they make litttle profit but learn
    something, or a project where they make a lot of money, but can only
    do average work. They won't take work where they won't make much
    money, can't learn anything, and couldn't do good work.

So these are the high points. I took 7 pages of notes, not all of which
I've recreated here. At the end of the day, I got a lot out of this
conference. It was a unique day, in a unique setting, and gave me a lot
of food for thought. According to the [SEED Conference
site](http://www.seedconference.com), they will be hosting more of
these. I would highly recommend attending.

