+++
title = "The Coming Decline of Rss and Atom"
date = "2009-01-10T10:00:00-00:00"
draft = false
categories = ["Technology"]
+++

Ever since I discovered Bloglines some years ago, I've been hooked on
RSS. I subscribed to a slew of feeds and treated it like a to do list,
always trying to get it to zero. Subscribing to those feeds enabled me
to see and learn about a lot of things I wouldn't have seen otherwise.

Since that time, RSS feeds have been my primary source of what's new and
interesting in the world of technology. Along the way, the feeds I was
subscribed to changed, as my interests changed, and I gave up Bloglines
for Google Reader. But my appetite for feeds has only grown.

Lately, though, I've seen a shift. Most days, I skim the headlines in
Google Reader, looking for specific sites, without ever getting the
unread count down to zero. What I've started noticing is that even when
I was keeping up on RSS feeds, I had already seen all of the interesting
stuff. The primary reason for this is Twitter.

[Twitter](http://twitter.com) is my social network of choice. Yes, I'm
on Facebook (though I succesfully avoided it for a long time), and I'm
also on LinkedIn, but the place I spend most of my social networking
time is Twitter. Most of the people whose blogs I've come to rely on for
news and insight are people I follow now on Twitter. I get more frequent
links and thoughts through that site than I ever would through a blog,
and it's much more real-time than RSS. There are a number of sites which
even offer to send you notifications of new content through Twitter in
addition to RSS, like [RubyFlow](http://rubyflow.com).

Additionally, I think sites like [Reddit](http://reddit.com) and [Hacker
News](http://news.ycombinator.com) are having a similar impact. Their
voting functions help to filter through the haystack to find the best
stuff and ensure that it rises to the top - at least in theory, I'm not
convinced that it always works in practice.

Perhaps the future of RSS and Atom lie as protocols that enable
applications to share information rather than as a consumer-facing
application of it's own. They're the plumbing, not the faucet.

While I still use RSS, and won't likely be shutting down Google Reader
any time soon, I find that the interesting things seem to find me,
rather than me having to wade through feed after feed to find them. This
is a byproduct of me being connected to a group of people on Twitter
with similar interests, who share things as they come across them. I'm
questioning whether my use of RSS will decline as I consume more
information this way.

I'm curious if anyone else is experiencing the same thing.

