+++
title = "A Change in Perspective"
date = "2006-11-18T03:00:00-00:00"
draft = false
+++

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/stoneth/220803634/"><img src="http://static.flickr.com/70/220803634_e2ccbaad46_m_d.jpg" /></a>

Photo by [Tom Stone](http://www.tomstonegallery.com/)

I often find that it's difficult to be content with what I have in life.
It's too easy to focus on what you **don't** have - a new car, a bigger
house, that shiny new [MacBook Pro](http://www.apple.com/macbookpro/) -
and forget about how much you **do** have. Modern society doesn't make
this any easier, particularly in the geek culture where something you
**must have** comes along every few seconds it seems.

The reality is, I'm fabulously wealthy. I mean, I'm no Warren Buffet,
but compared to the rest of the planet, I have more than enough.

I drive a 10 year old car, but there are millions of people who have no
car at all. Millions who would be happy to have a car, any car.

I have a laptop computer that's 4 years old, and has seen better days.
But there are millions who don't have any computer at all, and would be
excited at the thought of having mine.

I'd love to have a bigger house - who wouldn't? With two young boys, you
can never really have too much room. But there are millions who live in
houses a fraction of our size, many that aren't what most of use would
even consider houses. There are millions more who are homeless, and
would consider any kind of shelter to be a gift from God.

I struggle with this a lot - trying to be content with what I have.
Perhaps it's just human nature to always want more. Perhaps it's a
reality of modern life - we're being conditioned to not be satisfied
with what we have.

I thought of this again today, as I came across (via
[kottke](http://www.kottke.org)) a [collection of photos on
Flickr](http://www.flickr.com/photos/stoneth/) by photographer [Tom
Stone](http://www.tomstonegallery.com/). Tom is known for photographing
the homeless and others "living along the edges of society". Looking at
his photos of people living on the streets of San Francisco, and reading
the stories that go along with them isn't easy. They're pretty stark and
depressing, but it reminds me once again of just how much I have, and
how blessed I am.

