+++
title = "Book Review: Beginning Ruby: From Novice to Professional"
date = "2007-11-27T12:00:00-00:00"
draft = false
+++

![](>/assets/2007/11/21/9781590597668.gif)

I think [Beginning Ruby: From Novice to
Professional](http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/1590597664?ie=UTF8&tag=approachingno-20&linkCode=xm2&camp=1789&creativeASIN=1590597664)
is a better first Ruby book than the venerable
[Pickaxe](http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0974514055?ie=UTF8&tag=approachingno-20&linkCode=xm2&camp=1789&creativeASIN=0974514055).

The previous statement is almost heresy in the Ruby community. Don't get
me wrong, you should own the
[Pickaxe](http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0974514055?ie=UTF8&tag=approachingno-20&linkCode=xm2&camp=1789&creativeASIN=0974514055).
It's a great book and certainly lives up to it's description as "the
definitive reference to Ruby". However it's much more of a reference
book than an introduction to the language. And it's huge - 864 pages.
This is not a book you can just throw in your bag and carry around with
you. It's a book you would keep at your desk perhaps, dog-eared and
coffee stained. In this role, it is ideal. As an introduction to the
language, however, it leaves something to be desired.

Beginning Ruby, on the other hand, is an excellent (and I would argue
more approachable) introduction to the Ruby language, written by one of
it's more notable users. [Peter Cooper](http://www.petercooper.co.uk/)
is well known, in both the Ruby and Rails community. He runs the
Ruby-centered blog [Ruby Inside](http://rubyinside.com/), and has
developed a number of applications in Rails, including the
[Snippets](http://snippets.dzone.com/) code repository, which was
subsequently sold to [DZone](http://dzone.com). Peter also has done a
fair amount of writing over the years for a variety of sites.

The book is broken up into three primary sections, plus a handful of
appendices:

-   **Part 1: Foundations and Scaffolding** - This is an introduction to
    the Ruby language. Starting with installation, and going through the
    basic structure of the language and it's elements: strings,
    containers, and the like. There is a chapter on building basic Ruby
    programs that puts all of these concepts together. One nice bonus
    was a chapter on the Ruby ecosystem, which covers the various
    websites, irc channels, and other resources for Ruby developers.
-   **Part 2: The Core of Ruby** - This section covers the meat and
    potatoes of Ruby. It covers classes, modules, libraries, debugging
    and testing, databases, and advanced features. This is all tied
    together with a nice example application that implements a
    text-parsing bot. I liked that this application included unit tests,
    but it would have been nice if the testing was done test-first. This
    is a personal preference, but I think it's a best practice and would
    like to see it demonstrated more in books like this.

<!-- -->

-   **Part 3: Ruby Online** - As you would expect, this section includes
    some coverage on Rails. Its not exhaustive, and isn't intended to
    replace a full-blown book on Rails. It does offer a thorough
    overview though. That's not the sole focus of this section, however.
    Ample coverage is given to FTP, HTTP, and email, as well as raw TCP
    sockets and other networking type things. There is also a good
    chapter in here called "Useful Ruby Libraries and Gems". The chapter
    itself is a bit misplaced as it has very little to do with the
    internet, but it is a very useful overview of a lot of the third
    party gems that you can install. I found myself using this section
    regularly on a recent project.

In addition to these sections, there are three appendices. The third
appendix, called "Useful Resources" contains pointers to a lot of online
resources which would likely be unknown to someone new to Ruby. I didn't
find much in there I hadn't seen already, but I've been using Ruby for a
little while. The first two appendices are a primer and reference for
Ruby. These are both very good, and would be useful as references for a
new developer (or someone who doesn't have the entire ruby syntax
committed to memory yet, like me).

Weighing in at over 600 pages, this is a comprehensive book. At the same
time, it's quite a bit smaller than the Pickaxe, which makes it much
more portable (there's also a PDF version available for \$10 if you've
purchased the dead-tree edition, for the ultimate in portability).

As with the [last book I
reviewed](http://approachingnormal.com/2007/11/20/book-review-practical-rails-social-networking-sites),
this one appears to have been well technical reviewed. I didn't notice
any errors. I also enjoyed Peter's writing style, which is concise but
not dry.

In summary, if you want to learn Ruby, [Beginning Ruby: From Novice to
Professional](http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/1590597664?ie=UTF8&tag=approachingno-20&linkCode=xm2&camp=1789&creativeASIN=1590597664)
is the book to buy.

<i>Disclaimer: I received a free copy of this book from the publisher in
exchange for a review. There were no conditions other than that, but in
the interest of full disclosure, now you know.</i>

