+++
title = "Book Review - Ship It!"
date = "2005-11-18T21:00:00-00:00"
draft = false
categories = ["Books"]
+++

**Ship It!** By Jared Richardson and William Gwaltney Jr.

### Introduction

[Ship It!](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/0974514047/approachingno-20/002-9666217-3990422?%5Fencoding=UTF8&camp=1789&link%5Fcode=xm2) is a book about basics. It's an education in the fundamental practices that are needed to develop software successfully. This is the stuff they don't teach you in college. *Ship It*
doesn't espouse a particular methodology (such as Scrum or XP). Rather,
it is a set of practices. The advantage of this is that you don't have
to adopt everything in an all-or-nothing fashin. In fact the authors
state explicitly that you should use the things that work and don't use
the things that don't work. This will work particularly well in
situations where someone works in an environment that has an entrenched
methodology. While management might not be willing to buy off on a
wholesale switch to a different methodology, many of the practices
outlined in this book don't require you to spend any money. Therefore,
individual developers, leads, or managers can implement a couple of
practices (say "The List", and daily meetings) without needing
management approval.

Let me start off by saying that I'm a huge fan of the [Pragmatic
Programmers](http://www.pragmaticprogrammers.com). The original book
completely changed the way I approached programming. I've bought several
books from them since then, and have been extremely happy with them all.
This is rare. Even O'Reilly has a few stinkers amongst all of their
great books. The point is, I started reading this book with high
expectations.

The book is divided into four basic sections:

1.  Tools and Infrastructure
2.  Pragmatic Project Techniques
3.  Tracer Bullet Development
4.  Common Problems and How to Solve Them

The first section, **Tools and Infrastructure**, covers the basics of
software development tools. It not only covers what you need, but how
you should use it. The tools covered here include source control (with
an emphasis on Subversion), build scripts (using tools like Ant and
NAnt), continuous integration, defect and feature tracking, and more.
The book obviously can't go into each tool in great depth, but there is
enough there for you to get a good understanding of *why* you would want
to use these tools.

The section on **Pragmatic Project Techniques** is equally interesting.
As I said before, Jared and William don't advocate any particular
methodology, but have acquired a collection of practices over their
years of software development that work. That said, there's a fair
amount of overlap with traditional agile methods. It covers techniques
such as daily meetings (aka Daily Standups in XP), a shared list of work
referred to as "The List", among others. I would imagine that this
section of the book would be the most useful to the majority of people
reading this book. Geeks tend to focus on tools (section 1), but often
ignore the processes that make a project successfull (or not).

**Tracer Bullet Development** was covered in the original [Pragmatic
Programmers](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/020161622X/approachingno-20/002-9666217-3990422?%5Fencoding=UTF8&camp=1789&link%5Fcode=xm2)
book, though this book covers it in much greater depth. It's very useful
in situations where the client doesn't fully know what he/she wants. You
essentially build a prototype, and use it to draw out the requirements
from your customer. It's more involved than that (it warranted its own
section in the book), you'll need to read the book to gain a full
understanding.

**Common Problems and How to Solve Them** was probably my favorite
section of the book. It's a collection of 18 recipes for how to handle a
given situation using the principles outlined previously in the book. It
covers situations like "The customers are unhappy" and "Features keep
creeping in" with practical advice for how to deal with them. All of us
find ourselves in these kind of situations from time to time, and this
book would come in very handy when they do arise.

### Summary

In summary, I think this is an excellent book. It's not billed as such,
but it could almost be considered a sequel to the original [Pragmatic
Programmers](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/020161622X/approachingno-20/002-9666217-3990422?%5Fencoding=UTF8&camp=1789&link%5Fcode=xm2)
book. While the original focused on the tools and techniques of the
trade, this book elaborates on those and adds a lot of information on
processes. Combine this with the "Common Problems" section, and you have
a very useful book indeed. The writing style is somewhat casual, similar
to the other books from the Pragmatic Programmers, and the book is
filled with real-world examples from the authors. I would highly
recommend [Ship
It!](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/0974514047/approachingno-20/002-9666217-3990422?%5Fencoding=UTF8&camp=1789&link%5Fcode=xm2)
to anyone interested in improving their software development skills.

