+++
title = "Dean Kamen on Innovation"
date = "2005-10-24T02:00:00-00:00"
draft = false
+++

There's an interview in the latest [Make
magazine](http://www.makezine.com/) with Dean Kamen, inventor of the
Segway and many other cool things. It's a good interview, and definitely
worth your time to read it. One thing that stuck out was this quote on
designing things: "I do very little research as to what the product
should be ... if you do "product research", the product that you end up
with will be similar to what already exists".

I think this is why we see so many products that only get evolutionary
upgrades, instead of **revolutionary** ones. People are stuck on what
already exists, instead of being willing to throw it all out and start
anew.

This reminds me of the
[ClearRX](http://www.medgadget.com/archives/2005/04/clearrx_pill_bo.html)
medicine bottle redesign. Pill bottles have looked basically the same
for as long as I can remember. Now someone has come along and turned it
on it's ear. None of the changes required new technology to be invented,
it just needed someone to think about the problem differently.

[Ruby on Rails](http://www.rubyonrails.com) is much the same. Everything
in there had been done before, but
[someone](http://www.loudthinking.com) came along and said "let's look
at this problem differently." And it's turned the web development world
on it's ear. Even if Rails were gone tomorrow, it's impact would live on
for years to come.

What else is do for an overhaul?

Here's my short list, off the top of my head:

-   PDAs
-   IDEs
-   Email
-   CRM
-   Cars

What's missing?

